doc/vips.md, before:

# ImageProcessing::Vips

The `ImageProcessing::Vips` module contains processing macros that use the
[ruby-vips] gem (which is installed with the image_processing gem).

## Installation

You will need to install [libvips] before using this module:

```sh
$ brew install vips
```

If you're using something other than Homebrew, see the [installation
instructions] for more details.

NOTE: libvips 8.6 or higher is required.

## Usage

```rb
require "image_processing/vips"

processed = ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit(400, 400)
  .saver(strip: true)
  .call

processed #=> #<Tempfile:/var/folders/.../image_processing20180316-18446-1j247h6.png>
```

## Methods

#### `.valid_image?`

Tries to calculate the image average using sequential access, and returns
`true` if no exception was raised, otherwise returns `false`.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips.valid_image?(normal_image)  #=> true
ImageProcessing::Vips.valid_image?(invalid_image) #=> false
```

#### `#resize_to_limit`

Downsizes the image to fit within the specified dimensions while retaining the
original aspect ratio. Will only resize the image if it's larger than the
specified dimensions.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_to_limit!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [300, 400]
```

It's possible to omit one dimension, in which case the image will be resized
only by the provided dimension.

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_limit!(400, nil)
# or
pipeline.resize_to_limit!(nil, 400)
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_limit!(400, 400, linear: true)
```

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] for more details.

#### `#resize_to_fit`

Resizes the image to fit within the specified dimensions while retaining the
original aspect ratio. Will downsize the image if it's larger than the
specified dimensions or upsize if it's smaller.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_to_fit!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [300, 400]
```

It's possible to omit one dimension, in which case the image will be resized
only by the provided dimension.

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fit!(400, nil)
# or
pipeline.resize_to_fit!(nil, 400)
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fit!(400, 400, linear: true)
```

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] for more details.

#### `#resize_to_fill`

Resizes the image to fill the specified dimensions while retaining the original
aspect ratio. If necessary, will crop the image in the larger dimension.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_to_fill!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [400, 400]
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fill!(400, 400, crop: :attention) # smart crop
```

Crop option is `:centre` by default. Acceptable options are currently `:none`,
`:attention`, `:centre`, and `:entropy`.

Note that from libvips 8.8, `:crop` option will accept two new values – `:high`
and `:low` – which respectively position the crop box at the high end and low
end of the axis that needs cropping. On libvips versions prior to 8.8 you can
still get this behaviour, it just requires [some work][crop high low].

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] for more details.

#### `#resize_and_pad`

Resizes the image to fit within the specified dimensions while retaining the
original aspect ratio. If necessary, will pad the remaining area with
transparent color if source image has alpha channel, black otherwise.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [400, 400]
```

If you're converting from a format that doesn't support transparent colors
(e.g. JPEG) to a format that does (e.g. PNG), setting `:alpha` to `true` will
add the alpha channel to the image:

```rb
pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400, alpha: true)
```

The `:extend` and `:background` options are also accepted and are forwarded to
[`Vips::Image#gravity`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400, extend: :copy)
```

The `:gravity` option can be used to specify the [direction] where the source
image will be positioned (defaults to `"centre"`).

```rb
pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400, gravity: "north-west")
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fill!(400, 400, linear: true)
```

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] and [`vips_gravity()`] for more details.

#### `#rotate`

Rotates the image by the specified angle.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .rotate(90)
  # ...
```

For degrees that are not a multiple of 90, you can also specify a background
color for the empty triangles in the corners, left over from rotating the image.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .rotate(45, background: [0, 0, 0])
  # ...
```

All other options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#similarity`]. See
[`vips_similarity()`] for more details.

#### `#composite`

Blends the image with the specified image. One use case for this can be
applying a [watermark].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .composite(overlay)
  # ...
```

The overlay can be a `String`, `Pathname`, object that responds to `#path`, or
a `Vips::Image`.

The [blend mode] can be specified via the `:blend` option (defaults to `"over"`).

```rb
composite(overlay, mode: "atop")
```

The [direction] and position of the overlayed image can be controlled via the
`:gravity` and `:offset` options:

```rb
composite(overlay, gravity: "south-east")
composite(overlay, gravity: "north-west", offset: [55, 55])
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#composite`].

```rb
composite(overlay, premultiplied: true)
```

You can still invoke `Vips::Image#composite` directly by passing the blend mode
as the second argument:

```rb
composite(overlay, :over) # calls Vips::Image#composite
```

See [`vips_composite()`] for more details.

#### `#convert`

Specifies the output format.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image)

result = pipeline.convert!("png")

File.extname(result.path)
#=> ".png"
```

By default the original format is retained when writing the image to a file. If
the source file doesn't have a file extension, the format will default to JPEG.

NOTE: libvips 8.6 is able to normally read GIF images (and convert them to
other formats), but it's not able to *save* to GIF format. If you need full GIF
support, you need to use libvips 8.7+ compiled with ImageMagick support
(`--with-imagemagick` for Homebrew).

#### `#method_missing`

Any unknown methods will be delegated to [`Vips::Image`].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .crop(0, 0, 300, 300)
  .invert
  .set("icc-profile-data", custom_profile)
  .remove("xmp-data")
  .gaussblur(2)
  # ...
```

#### `#custom`

Yields the intermediary `Vips::Image` object. If the block return value is a
`Vips::Image` object it will be used in further processing, otherwise if `nil`
is returned the original `Vips::Image` object will be used.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .custom { |image| image + image.invert if invert? }
  # ...
```

#### `#loader`

Specifies options that will be forwarded to [`Vips::Image.new_from_file`].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(access: :sequential)
  # ...
```

If the `#loader` clause is specified multiple times, the options are merged.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(page: 0)
  .loader(dpi: 300)

# resolves to

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(page: 0, dpi: 300)
```

See [`vips_jpegload()`], [`vips_pngload()`] etc. for more details on
format-specific load options. Any provided options that are not defined for a
specific loader will be ignored.

An additional `:autorot` option is accepted to specify whether
[`vips_autorot()`] should be automatically called after the image is loaded
(defaults to `true`).

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(autorot: false) # disable automatic rotation
  # ...
```

If you would like to have more control over loading, you can load the image
directly using `Vips::Image`, and just pass the `Vips::Image` object as the
source file.

```rb
vips_image = Vips::Image.magickload(file.path, n: -1)

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(vips_image)
  # ...
```

#### `#saver`

Specifies options that will be forwarded to [`Vips::Image#write_to_file`].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .saver(quality: 100) # alias for :Q
  # ...
```

If the `#saver` clause is repeated multiple times, the options are merged.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .saver(tile: true)
  .saver(compression: :lzw)

# resolves to

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .saver(tile: true, compression: :lzw)
```

See [`vips_jpegsave()`], [`vips_pngsave()`] etc. for more details on
format-specific save options. Any provided options that are not defined for a
specific saver will be ignored.

If you would like to have more control over saving, you can call `#call(save:
false)` to get the `Vips::Image` object, and call the saver on it directly.

```rb
vips_image = ImageProcessing::Vips
  .resize_to_limit(400, 400)
  .call(save: false)

vips_image #=> #<Vips::Image ...>

vips_image.write_to_file("/path/to/destination", **options)
```

#### `#apply`

This is a convenience method for sending multiple commands to the builder using
a hash. Hash keys can be any method that the builder responds to. Hash values
can be either a single argument, an array of arguments, or `true`/`nil`
indicating no arguments. Instead of a hash you can also use an array if you
want to send multiple commands with the same name.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .apply(
    invert: true,
    smartcrop: [200, 200],
    resize_to_limit: [400, 400],
    convert: "jpg",
    saver: { quality: 100 },
  )
  # ...
```

## Sharpening

All `#resize_*` operations will automatically sharpen the resulting thumbnails
after resizing, using the following [convolution mask]:

```rb
Vips::Image.new_from_array [
  [-1, -1, -1],
  [-1, 32, -1],
  [-1, -1, -1]], 24
```

You can assign a different convolution mask via the `:sharpen` option:

```rb
sharpen_mask = Vips::Image.new_from_array [
  [-1, -1, -1],
  [-1, 24, -1],
  [-1, -1, -1]], 16

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit!(400, 400, sharpen: sharpen_mask)
```

You can disable automatic sharpening by setting `:sharpen` to `false`:

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit!(400, 400, sharpen: false)
```

[ruby-vips]: https://github.com/libvips/ruby-vips
[libvips]: https://github.com/libvips/libvips
[installation instructions]: https://github.com/libvips/libvips/wiki#building-and-installing
[`Vips::Image`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image
[`Vips::Image.new_from_file`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#new_from_file-class_method
[`Vips::Image#write_to_file`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#write_to_file-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#thumbnail_image-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#gravity`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#gravity-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#composite`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#composite-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#similarity`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#similarity-instance_method
[`vips_thumbnail()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-resample.html#vips-thumbnail
[`vips_gravity()`]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#vips-gravity
[`vips_composite()`]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#vips-composite
[`vips_autorot()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#vips-autorot
[`vips_similarity()`]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-resample.html#vips-similarity
[`vips_jpegload()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-jpegload
[`vips_pngload()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-pngload
[`vips_jpegsave()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-jpegsave
[`vips_pngsave()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-pngsave
[direction]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#VipsCompassDirection
[blend mode]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#VipsBlendMode
[convolution mask]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(image_processing)
[watermark]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watermark
[crop high low]: https://github.com/janko/image_processing/wiki/Resize-To-Fill

Commit message:

[vips] Perform resize-on-load when possible
Resizing on load using `vips_thumbnail()` (versus after load using
`vips_thumbnail_image()`) can speed up resizing significantly, and in
some cases even make it more accurate.

  thumbnail_image() (1000px => 300px) – 0.062s
  thumbnail()       (1000px => 300px) – 0.031s

  thumbnail_image() (1000px => 500px) – 0.045s
  thumbnail()       (1000px => 500px) – 0.043s

  thumbnail_image() (1000px => 800px) – 0.046s
  thumbnail()       (1000px => 800px) – 0.043s

  thumbnail_image() (1500px => 300px) – 0.104s
  thumbnail()       (1500px => 300px) – 0.037s

  thumbnail_image() (1500px => 500px) – 0.096s
  thumbnail()       (1500px => 500px) – 0.068s

  thumbnail_image() (1500px => 800px) – 0.090s
  thumbnail()       (1500px => 800px) – 0.066s

  thumbnail_image() (2000px => 300px) – 0.154s
  thumbnail()       (2000px => 300px) – 0.041s

  thumbnail_image() (2000px => 500px) – 0.170s
  thumbnail()       (2000px => 500px) – 0.051s

  thumbnail_image() (2000px => 800px) – 0.147s
  thumbnail()       (2000px => 800px) – 0.093s

  thumbnail_image() (2500px => 300px) – 0.219s
  thumbnail()       (2500px => 300px) – 0.046s

  thumbnail_image() (2500px => 500px) – 0.218s
  thumbnail()       (2500px => 500px) – 0.053s

  thumbnail_image() (2500px => 800px) – 0.215s
  thumbnail()       (2500px => 800px) – 0.123s

  thumbnail_image() (3000px => 300px) – 0.300s
  thumbnail()       (3000px => 300px) – 0.046s

  thumbnail_image() (3000px => 500px) – 0.310s
  thumbnail()       (3000px => 500px) – 0.076s

  thumbnail_image() (3000px => 800px) – 0.302s
  thumbnail()       (3000px => 800px) – 0.146s

Closes #48

doc/vips.md, after:

# ImageProcessing::Vips

The `ImageProcessing::Vips` module contains processing macros that use the
[ruby-vips] gem (which is installed with the image_processing gem).

## Installation

You will need to install [libvips] before using this module:

```sh
$ brew install vips
```

If you're using something other than Homebrew, see the [installation
instructions] for more details.

NOTE: libvips 8.6 or higher is required.

## Usage

```rb
require "image_processing/vips"

processed = ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit(400, 400)
  .saver(strip: true)
  .call

processed #=> #<Tempfile:/var/folders/.../image_processing20180316-18446-1j247h6.png>
```

### Resize-on-load

If you're resizing, it's highly recommended to always have `#resize_*` as the
first operation in the chain. That way the processor can perform resize-on-load
(using [`vips_thumbnail()`]), which speeds up processing significantly, and in
in certain cases even makes it more accurate.

```rb
# BAD: cannot utilize resize-on-load
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .colourspace(:grey16)
  .resize_to_limit(400, 400)

# GOOD: utilizes resize-on-load
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit(400, 400)
  .colourspace(:grey16)
```

## Methods

#### `.valid_image?`

Tries to calculate the image average using sequential access, and returns
`true` if no exception was raised, otherwise returns `false`.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips.valid_image?(normal_image)  #=> true
ImageProcessing::Vips.valid_image?(invalid_image) #=> false
```

#### `#resize_to_limit`

Downsizes the image to fit within the specified dimensions while retaining the
original aspect ratio. Will only resize the image if it's larger than the
specified dimensions.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_to_limit!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [300, 400]
```

It's possible to omit one dimension, in which case the image will be resized
only by the provided dimension.

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_limit!(400, nil)
# or
pipeline.resize_to_limit!(nil, 400)
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_limit!(400, 400, linear: true)
```

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] for more details.

#### `#resize_to_fit`

Resizes the image to fit within the specified dimensions while retaining the
original aspect ratio. Will downsize the image if it's larger than the
specified dimensions or upsize if it's smaller.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_to_fit!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [300, 400]
```

It's possible to omit one dimension, in which case the image will be resized
only by the provided dimension.

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fit!(400, nil)
# or
pipeline.resize_to_fit!(nil, 400)
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fit!(400, 400, linear: true)
```

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] for more details.

#### `#resize_to_fill`

Resizes the image to fill the specified dimensions while retaining the original
aspect ratio. If necessary, will crop the image in the larger dimension.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_to_fill!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [400, 400]
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fill!(400, 400, crop: :attention) # smart crop
```

Crop option is `:centre` by default. Acceptable options are currently `:none`,
`:attention`, `:centre`, and `:entropy`.

Note that from libvips 8.8, `:crop` option will accept two new values – `:high`
and `:low` – which respectively position the crop box at the high end and low
end of the axis that needs cropping. On libvips versions prior to 8.8 you can
still get this behaviour, it just requires [some work][crop high low].

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] for more details.

#### `#resize_and_pad`

Resizes the image to fit within the specified dimensions while retaining the
original aspect ratio. If necessary, will pad the remaining area with
transparent color if source image has alpha channel, black otherwise.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image) # 600x800

result = pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400)

Vips::Image.new_from_file(result.path).size #=> [400, 400]
```

If you're converting from a format that doesn't support transparent colors
(e.g. JPEG) to a format that does (e.g. PNG), setting `:alpha` to `true` will
add the alpha channel to the image:

```rb
pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400, alpha: true)
```

The `:extend` and `:background` options are also accepted and are forwarded to
[`Vips::Image#gravity`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400, extend: :copy)
```

The `:gravity` option can be used to specify the [direction] where the source
image will be positioned (defaults to `"centre"`).

```rb
pipeline.resize_and_pad!(400, 400, gravity: "north-west")
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]:

```rb
pipeline.resize_to_fill!(400, 400, linear: true)
```

See [`vips_thumbnail()`] and [`vips_gravity()`] for more details.

#### `#rotate`

Rotates the image by the specified angle.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .rotate(90)
  # ...
```

For degrees that are not a multiple of 90, you can also specify a background
color for the empty triangles in the corners, left over from rotating the image.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .rotate(45, background: [0, 0, 0])
  # ...
```

All other options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#similarity`]. See
[`vips_similarity()`] for more details.

#### `#composite`

Blends the image with the specified image. One use case for this can be
applying a [watermark].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .composite(overlay)
  # ...
```

The overlay can be a `String`, `Pathname`, object that responds to `#path`, or
a `Vips::Image`.

The [blend mode] can be specified via the `:blend` option (defaults to `"over"`).

```rb
composite(overlay, mode: "atop")
```

The [direction] and position of the overlayed image can be controlled via the
`:gravity` and `:offset` options:

```rb
composite(overlay, gravity: "south-east")
composite(overlay, gravity: "north-west", offset: [55, 55])
```

Any additional options are forwarded to [`Vips::Image#composite`].

```rb
composite(overlay, premultiplied: true)
```

You can still invoke `Vips::Image#composite` directly by passing the blend mode
as the second argument:

```rb
composite(overlay, :over) # calls Vips::Image#composite
```

See [`vips_composite()`] for more details.

#### `#convert`

Specifies the output format.

```rb
pipeline = ImageProcessing::Vips.source(image)

result = pipeline.convert!("png")

File.extname(result.path)
#=> ".png"
```

By default the original format is retained when writing the image to a file. If
the source file doesn't have a file extension, the format will default to JPEG.

NOTE: libvips 8.6 is able to normally read GIF images (and convert them to
other formats), but it's not able to *save* to GIF format. If you need full GIF
support, you need to use libvips 8.7+ compiled with ImageMagick support
(`--with-imagemagick` for Homebrew).

#### `#method_missing`

Any unknown methods will be delegated to [`Vips::Image`].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .crop(0, 0, 300, 300)
  .invert
  .set("icc-profile-data", custom_profile)
  .remove("xmp-data")
  .gaussblur(2)
  # ...
```

#### `#custom`

Yields the intermediary `Vips::Image` object. If the block return value is a
`Vips::Image` object it will be used in further processing, otherwise if `nil`
is returned the original `Vips::Image` object will be used.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .custom { |image| image + image.invert if invert? }
  # ...
```

#### `#loader`

Specifies options that will be forwarded to [`Vips::Image.new_from_file`].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(access: :sequential)
  # ...
```

If the `#loader` clause is specified multiple times, the options are merged.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(page: 0)
  .loader(dpi: 300)

# resolves to

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(page: 0, dpi: 300)
```

See [`vips_jpegload()`], [`vips_pngload()`] etc. for more details on
format-specific load options. Any provided options that are not defined for a
specific loader will be ignored.

An additional `:autorot` option is accepted to specify whether
[`vips_autorot()`] should be automatically called after the image is loaded
(defaults to `true`).

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .loader(autorot: false) # disable automatic rotation
  # ...
```

If you would like to have more control over loading, you can load the image
directly using `Vips::Image`, and just pass the `Vips::Image` object as the
source file.

```rb
vips_image = Vips::Image.magickload(file.path, n: -1)

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(vips_image)
  # ...
```

#### `#saver`

Specifies options that will be forwarded to [`Vips::Image#write_to_file`].

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .saver(quality: 100) # alias for :Q
  # ...
```

If the `#saver` clause is repeated multiple times, the options are merged.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .saver(tile: true)
  .saver(compression: :lzw)

# resolves to

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .saver(tile: true, compression: :lzw)
```

See [`vips_jpegsave()`], [`vips_pngsave()`] etc. for more details on
format-specific save options. Any provided options that are not defined for a
specific saver will be ignored.

If you would like to have more control over saving, you can call `#call(save:
false)` to get the `Vips::Image` object, and call the saver on it directly.

```rb
vips_image = ImageProcessing::Vips
  .resize_to_limit(400, 400)
  .call(save: false)

vips_image #=> #<Vips::Image ...>

vips_image.write_to_file("/path/to/destination", **options)
```

#### `#apply`

This is a convenience method for sending multiple commands to the builder using
a hash. Hash keys can be any method that the builder responds to. Hash values
can be either a single argument, an array of arguments, or `true`/`nil`
indicating no arguments. Instead of a hash you can also use an array if you
want to send multiple commands with the same name.

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .apply(
    invert: true,
    smartcrop: [200, 200],
    resize_to_limit: [400, 400],
    convert: "jpg",
    saver: { quality: 100 },
  )
  # ...
```

## Sharpening

All `#resize_*` operations will automatically sharpen the resulting thumbnails
after resizing, using the following [convolution mask]:

```rb
Vips::Image.new_from_array [
  [-1, -1, -1],
  [-1, 32, -1],
  [-1, -1, -1]], 24
```

You can assign a different convolution mask via the `:sharpen` option:

```rb
sharpen_mask = Vips::Image.new_from_array [
  [-1, -1, -1],
  [-1, 24, -1],
  [-1, -1, -1]], 16

ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit!(400, 400, sharpen: sharpen_mask)
```

You can disable automatic sharpening by setting `:sharpen` to `false`:

```rb
ImageProcessing::Vips
  .source(image)
  .resize_to_limit!(400, 400, sharpen: false)
```

[ruby-vips]: https://github.com/libvips/ruby-vips
[libvips]: https://github.com/libvips/libvips
[installation instructions]: https://github.com/libvips/libvips/wiki#building-and-installing
[`Vips::Image`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image
[`Vips::Image.new_from_file`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#new_from_file-class_method
[`Vips::Image#write_to_file`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#write_to_file-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#thumbnail_image`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#thumbnail_image-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#gravity`]: http://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#gravity-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#composite`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#composite-instance_method
[`Vips::Image#similarity`]: https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/ruby-vips/Vips/Image#similarity-instance_method
[`vips_thumbnail()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-resample.html#vips-thumbnail
[`vips_gravity()`]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#vips-gravity
[`vips_composite()`]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#vips-composite
[`vips_autorot()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#vips-autorot
[`vips_similarity()`]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-resample.html#vips-similarity
[`vips_jpegload()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-jpegload
[`vips_pngload()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-pngload
[`vips_jpegsave()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-jpegsave
[`vips_pngsave()`]: https://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/VipsForeignSave.html#vips-pngsave
[direction]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#VipsCompassDirection
[blend mode]: http://libvips.github.io/libvips/API/current/libvips-conversion.html#VipsBlendMode
[convolution mask]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(image_processing)
[watermark]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watermark
[crop high low]: https://github.com/janko/image_processing/wiki/Resize-To-Fill
